---
layout: single
title: 'Project: The Ultimate NYUAD Taxi Experience'
date: 2018-12-10
---

*This is Part 2 of my project on NYUAD students' experiences with taxis. Part 1 can be found [here]({% post_url 2018-12-10-dataset %}).*

It was a warm Thursday night in Abu Dhabi. A few friends and I had decided to take a taxi to Al Wahda Mall to try out a Korean restaurant called Prime Okryu. The taxi ride started out normally, and we chatted amongst ourselves as any reasonable group of friends were.

But as soon as we entered the busy rush hour streets, things went downhill -- fast. Our driver began taking questionable turns, circling the block four times with a look of thinly-veiled confusion. At one point, we were nearly rear-ended when the driver attempted to merge into oncoming traffic. And when the ride finally ended, our fare was 50 AED -- an exorbitant price compared to the average price of 30-35 AED during the same time period.

I was shocked. This was the first time I had experienced such a horrible taxi ride. I thought that taxi drivers were supposed to know the roads and protect their passengers. Unfortunately, however, this would not be the last time I would experience incidents like this.

Other NYUAD students have had similar issues with taxis. During my data collection for the taxi dataset, I also asked for respondents' experiences and opinions on taxis. The results were rather mixed; some people liked the convenience of taxis while others hated the inexperience and unreasonable fares they experienced.

So for the storytelling component of my final project, I decided to add all of the anonymous responses I received onto the map into a layer alongside my dataset visualizations.

As with the dataset, I require more responses to create a clearer picture of the taxi situation in Abu Dhabi. Nevertheless, respondents have reported issues with the drivers, the app, location names, and the lack of addresses. Perhaps my story map, if given more data, could help Abu Dhabi address these problems so that taxi rides are not a painful experience.

The story map is embedded below. Green markers indicate quotes of respondents' experiences. Blue markers indicate taxi prices from NYUAD and red markers indicate taxi prices to NYUAD; the darker the color of the marker, the more expensive that taxi ride was. Each of the layers are toggleable.

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/1/embed?mid=15xG1vR9elBI-bs6HnPvEtzqVBQTqMSjl" width="640" height="480"></iframe>
