---
layout: single
title: 'Dataset: The Ultimate NYUAD Taxi Experience'
date: 2018-12-10
---

NYUAD is often nicknamed the "Saadiyat Bubble" by students. After all, with the amenities present on-campus -- food, gym, study space -- some students find little need to leave campus. And for those who leave campus, free shuttles appear punctually at scheduled times to take students to common landmarks like the Corniche, Yas Mall, and Madinat Zayed. But extenuating circumstances occur: you miss the shuttle, you urgently need to go to a destination, you require transportation at times when shuttles don't operate.

Well luckily for you, taxis are an option. In Abu Dhabi, taxis can be a convenient, cheap, and fast transportation method; on the other hand, taxis in Abu Dhabi can also become a living nightmare of road unfamiliarity, price gouging, and general frustration. So to see how common it was for taxis in Abu Dhabi to price gouge or become lost, I decided to build a dataset of taxi prices to and from NYUAD.

## The Dataset

The dataset is split into two CSVs: [taxi prices from NYUAD](/assets/nyuad_taxis_from.csv) and [taxi prices to NYUAD](/assets/nyuad_taxis_to.csv). Data collection was performed via a combination of randomly sampled in-person surveys and a Google Form sent to NYUAD's Room of Requirement Facebook group. Difficulties in data collection included the fact that people were more willing to answer the survey if they knew me personally. With the Google Form, there were significantly less issues; the only real issue was sometimes with the ambiguity of place names submitted. Despite the fact that I have 61 total data points, the size of the data is a bit too small to draw substantial conclusions.

But given the current data, it appears that taxi fares to and from NYUAD are rather inconsistent. For example, taxi rides to Al Wahda Mall ranged from 27 AED to 50 AED, and taxi rides from Yas Mall ranged from 30 AED to 60 AED. This can be attributed to a variety of factors like traffic, types of roads and streets driven on, driver's familiarity with the routes, and driver's state of mind.

For a more story-based approach to analyzing this dataset, please read [Part 2 of the Ultimate NYUAD Taxi Experience]({% post_url 2018-12-10-story %}).
